All right.
Let's go ahead.
We're going to get started by first writing out our error handling middleware inside of our project.
So I'm going to go back over to my editor.
I'm going to find my CRC directory and inside there I'm going to make a new folder called middleware
as well, then create a new file inside of that directory called Air Dash Handler TS.
So instead of here, we're going to write out our error handling middleware.
Remember, the only requirement is that it has to be a function that receives four arguments.
And the order of those arguments are the error, request, response and the next function.
So I'm going to write out and export a single function called Air Handler.
This is going to receive arguments of air, rec, rez and next we need to make sure that we apply some
type annotations because right now TypeScript has no idea what these arguments are supposed to be.
The first argument of air is always going to be some kind of actual air object.
So this will be like an air that gets thrown by some code that we write.
Then the next are going to be the request, object, response, and the next function.
To apply some annotations to those.
We will import the request type response type in next function type from express at the top of the file.
So I will import request, response and next function from Express and then I will apply those types
to those arguments.
The request response.
And next function and I'll save it.
So it wraps that code down.
Then inside of here, our job is to take a look at the air that just occurred.
We're then going to somehow format all the information inside there and respond back to whoever made
the request through this object.
The number one goal inside this air handler is to make sure that we always send back a very consistently
structured message because again, we do not want our React application to have to be trying to figure
out exactly how to handle all these 30 different kinds of errors.
We don't want to react to application to have to handle an array of objects or just a single string
or just an object.
We just want to have one single identical structure for all possible errors across all of our different
servers.
So right now let's just do a console log of the year itself.
We'll say a console log of something like something went wrong.
And then we'll log the air out.
Well, then send back a response.
I'll give it a status.
Of 400 and I'll send a message that says something like something went wrong.
So ideally, at some point in time in the future, we're going to inspect this air.
We're going to pull some information out of it and then put it in this object or something like that.
This object right here.
That is what we want to have or make sure that we have a very consistent structure on.
And again, it doesn't have to necessarily be an object.
It could be an array of objects, whatever.
We'll figure that out at some point in time.
So now that we've put together our error handling middleware, we need to wire it up to our express
application.
To do so, we'll go back over to our indexed file.
Right.
After all of our different roots, I will import.
That air handler.
From Middle wears air handler and then we will wire this up after all of our different route handlers.
So after app use we'll put down one more app use with air handler like so.
Okay.
So this looks good.
Let's now close this file.
I'm going to close air handler and go back over to sign up.
Let's.
Now at this point in time, we are not actually throwing any errors inside of our code whatsoever.
Instead if something goes wrong or if we find an error with this validation result right here, we are
automatically sending back a status code of 400 along with that list of errors.
So in order to make sure that we have a very consistently structured response no matter what, rather
than manually writing in some error handling code like this right here, any time something goes wrong,
we're going to instead just throw an error.
So I'm going to throw a new error.
And as the reason for it, I'll put in something like invalid email or password.
We'll eventually actually consume that list of errors and get some more detailed information about what
is going on.
But for right now, I just want to give you a general demonstration of what we're going to be doing
anytime something goes wrong inside of our code or in processing a request.
We are going to throw an air and it's going to be automatically picked up by that error handler middleware
that we just put together.
So now we can imagine.
Let's just use our imagination for a moment.
Down here, we've got a console.log that says creating a user, and maybe we attempt to save a user
to our database.
Let's imagine for a second that our database is always down 100% of the time.
Maybe we just have a really bad database connection.
So rather than actually successfully rating a user, let's imagine that we throw an air right here and
the air says something like air connecting to a database.
Obviously we're not always going to have something like this.
We're just going to assume right now that for some reason our database is always down.
Now we're kind of in that scenario that we looked at just a moment ago in this diagram right here,
we might get past the point of checking to see if a email is valid, but we are not able to access our
database and see if the email is already in use or maybe even or in this scenario where we did check
to see if the email is already in use.
We try to create the user, but the database is down.
So we now have multiple places where our code can fail, multiple places where we can throw errors.
And no matter what, we are always capturing those errors, thanks to the fact that Express is going
to automatically capture any error that we throw inside of a root handler and throw it off to our error
handling middleware where we can do some processing on it.
So let's now save this.
Test it out inside a postman and see how we're doing.
I'm going to go back over to post, man.
Inside a postman.
You'll notice that I have a invalid email loaded in here.
I'm going to send this request out and you'll see that I get back a response with the status of 400
and a message of something went wrong.
Now, even if I enter in a valid email.
I still get the same thing.
So in the first case, I got an error because I put in an invalid input.
So the data that I provided into the request was not valid.
And so I got back an error message that said something went wrong.
When I entered in a valid email, I got past.
The step where we were checking with Express Validator.
So for the first request, we were in scenario one when I put in a valid email, we are now in scenario
number two where we can imagine that we got past this step where we go through Express Validator and
we are on to checking to see if that email is already in use or maybe we try to create the user whatever
else.
The point is we got past Express Validator and we were throwing an air now from some other cause or
some other reason inside of our application.
And in both scenarios, in scenario one and number two, where we had a valid or invalid email, we
always got back a very consistent looking response right here.
And that's the key.
That's what we are after.
We want to make sure we always have a very consistent response.
At this point, it might seem like I'm still making a real big deal over stuff that is not challenging
or not important.
So as I mentioned, there are a couple of quarter cases in here and kind of strange things and some
really big optimizations that we can throw in.
So we're not quite done yet.
Let's take a pause right here and continue in just a moment.